.TH IG 1 "April 2026" "ig-term 0.2.0" "ig-term Manual"
.SH NAME
ig \- terminal configuration framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ig
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ig-term
sets up a productive, beautiful, and functional terminal with one command.
It manages shell configuration, prompt, terminal emulator, CLI tools, fonts,
themes, and git defaults through a modular architecture.
.PP
All configurations live inside the ig-term installation directory and are
symlinked to their system paths. User customizations are preserved across
updates.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B init
First-time setup. Installs all enabled modules, creates configuration
files, and sets up symlinks. Backs up any existing configs before
overwriting.
.TP
.B apply
Re-generate all configuration files without reinstalling packages.
Use this after editing
.IR ~/.config/ig-term/ig.toml .
.TP
.B update \fR[\fB--check\fR]
Pull the latest ig-term version and re-apply configurations.
With \fB--check\fR, only reports whether an update is available.
.TP
.B module list
Show all available modules and their status (enabled/disabled).
.TP
.B module enable \fIname\fR
Enable a module: updates ig.toml, installs packages, and configures it.
.TP
.B module disable \fIname\fR
Disable a module: updates ig.toml and removes it from state tracking.
.TP
.B theme list
Show available color themes. The active theme is marked with *.
.TP
.B theme set \fIname\fR
Switch to a different theme and re-apply all configurations.
.TP
.B list
Show installed modules and tools with versions, dates, and managed
configuration files.
.TP
.B logs \fR[\fIaction\fR]
Show operation history. Optionally filter by action type:
.BR install ", " configure ", " update ", " remove ", " enable ", " disable .
.TP
.B doctor
Run health checks: verify all tools are installed, configs exist,
and report system information.
.TP
.B backup
Manually backup all managed configuration files to
.IR ~/.config/ig-term/backups/ .
.TP
.B uninstall
Remove ig-term symlinks and restore original configurations from
backup. Does not uninstall system packages.
.TP
.B version
Show ig-term version and git commit hash.
.TP
.B help
Show command summary.
.SH MODULES
ig-term ships with the following modules:
.TP
.B fonts
Installs Nerd Fonts (default: Hack Nerd Font) for terminal icons
and glyphs.
.TP
.B theme
Loads a color palette and exports it as IG_COLOR_* environment
variables for other modules.
.TP
.B shell
ZSH with Zim framework, aliases (git, navigation, utilities),
functions (smart-install, cdd, killport), and platform-specific
environment exports.
.TP
.B prompt
Starship cross-shell prompt with presets: default, minimal, powerline.
.TP
.B terminal
Ghostty terminal emulator configuration generated from theme colors
and user settings.
.TP
.B tools
Modern CLI replacements: bat (cat), lsd (ls), fzf (fuzzy finder),
zoxide (smarter cd).
.TP
.B git
Sensible git defaults via include.path. Does not touch user identity
(name, email, signing key).
.SH CONFIGURATION
ig-term uses a three-layer TOML configuration with merge semantics:
.TP
.B 1. Defaults
.I ~/.local/share/ig-term/templates/ig.toml
.br
Shipped with ig-term. Never edit this file.
.TP
.B 2. User config
.I ~/.config/ig-term/ig.toml
.br
Your customizations. Only specify what you want to change.
.TP
.B 3. Local overrides
.I ~/.config/ig-term/local.toml
.br
Machine-specific settings. Not tracked by git.
.PP
Higher layers override lower ones. Run
.B ig apply
after editing.
.SH EXAMPLE CONFIGURATION
.nf
[modules]
shell = true
prompt = true
terminal = true
git = false

[prompt]
preset = "minimal"

[terminal]
font_family = "JetBrains Mono Nerd Font"
font_size = 14

[theme]
name = "tokyo-night"

[shell]
welcome = false
.fi
.SH EXTENDING
.SS Custom aliases and scripts
Drop .sh files in
.I ~/.config/ig-term/custom/
and they will be sourced automatically on shell startup.
.SS Custom modules
Create a directory in
.I ~/.config/ig-term/modules/my-module/
with module.toml, install.sh, and configure.sh.
.SS Hooks
Drop scripts in
.I ~/.config/ig-term/hooks/{pre,post}-{install,update}.d/
to run at lifecycle events.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/ig-term/
Installation directory.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ig-term/ig.toml
User configuration.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ig-term/local.toml
Machine-local overrides.
.TP
.I ~/.config/ig-term/state.toml
State tracking (installed modules, tools, configs).
.TP
.I ~/.config/ig-term/logs/
Operation logs (one file per day).
.TP
.I ~/.config/ig-term/backups/
Backup copies of overwritten configs.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B IG_HOME
Override ig-term installation path (default: ~/.local/share/ig-term).
.TP
.B IG_CONFIG_DIR
Override config directory (default: ~/.config/ig-term).
.TP
.B IG_LOG_LEVEL
Set log verbosity: debug, info, warn, error (default: info).
.TP
.B IG_WELCOME
Set to "false" to disable the welcome screen.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Error or health check found issues.
.SH AUTHORS
Alexander Diaz and contributors.
.SH LICENSE
Elastic License 2.0.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zsh (1),
.BR starship (1),
.BR ghostty (1),
.BR bat (1),
.BR lsd (1),
.BR fzf (1),
.BR zoxide (1)
.PP
.UR https://github.com/getigris/igris-terminal
GitHub repository
.UE
